Hello everyone and welcome to this section on pandas.
In this lecture we're going to give you a brief introduction on what it's pandas so in this overall
section the course we're in discussing this lecture why we use pandas and what it actually is and then
we'll have a series of lectures that go through the specifics of operating pandas that includes topics
such as pandas series and data frames how to deal with missing data how to perform group by methods
a variety of useful panda operations and then we'll end the section with a set of exercise questions
and then we'll go over the solutions for them so let's begin by discussing quickly what is pandas.
So pandas doesn't actually stand for a panda bear.
It derives its name from panel data and really it's the most popular library for data handling for python.
And it's built directly off of nut pie which is why we covered nut pi first.
In fact you'll see a lot of similarities when using pandas after already learning num pi since we're
going to be working with data continuously in this course we're going to be using pandas to read in
our data clean the data and even perform feature engineering with pandas.
These are things you need to actually perform before even import tensor flow.
So it's a really great library to learn and it's going to be useful across many aspects of a data analysis
procedure now.
Pandas relies on some core data structures for its operations which are going to learn about in the
next series of lectures.
The first one is the actual pandas series and this is essentially a number pi data array with the addition
of a named index and will later on see why that is really useful for real world data.
Then we'll expand this to the really core structure of PANDAS which is the data frame.
And this is essentially a data matrix that has both labeled indices or a labeled index and labeled columns.
So we're gonna be exploring these throughout the section of the course.
Now if you're interested in topics such as tensor flow for deep learning that you've probably already
encountered pandas to some degree.
So the question arises What if you already know some pandas are you ready to continue on to the next
section.
Of course what I would encourage you to do is check out the exercise at the end of the section test
your abilities and then feel free to browse through various pandas topic lectures to review anything
you may have forgotten or need to brush up on now before we continue on.
I would actually highly recommend you check out the fantastic documentation at pandas not pi data the
org slash pandas dash docs slash stable.
In fact let's quickly explore it because I think pandas has some of the best online documentation for
any python library.
All right.
So here I am at the official documentation for pandas and this is a resource that I highly recommend
that you check out throughout this section of the course and throughout the general course.
In fact there's a really great getting started section here that you can click on.
And it has this really nice ten minute guide to pandas.
Keep in mind we will be going over a lot of this but this is a really nice guide.
In case you maybe forgot how to deal with missing data you can just click on it here and quickly review
how to deal with it and keep in mind there's even more in-depth section and you can just click here.
Missing data section and then get a really in-depth view of how to work with a particular topic.
In this case missing data and you can see here just based off the scrolling that the online documentation
is very in-depth and there's a lot of useful things on the user guide things like input output tools
dealing with more complex topics like reshaping and pivot tables multi indices and even things like
visualization.
Now again we're gonna be covering a lot of this throughout this section of the course.
And later on in the course but I would encourage you to really check out the online documentation whenever
you have a random question of how would you do X or Y empanadas pandas or is pandas capable of dealing
with x or y data.
Okay so that's it for now.
Let's go ahead and get started by learning about pandas series in the next lecture.
I'll see you there.